# Postfix mail alias generator for Nextcloud

Postmag allows users to generate aliases for their email addresses so that they can use different email addresses for different services on the internet easily.

A configuration file for postfix that implements these aliases can be generated via the occ command line tool.

## Alias format

A generated alias is built out of 3 parts.

* alias_name: The user can choose an alias name to make it more easy for the user to identify the alias. It is recommended to use the name of the service where the alias will be used to identify compromised services if you recieve spam via this alias. For instance use the aliase_name "amazon" if you want to use the Alias for your Amazon account.
* alias_id: A random hexadecimal identifier is generated by Postmag. If the user thinks, that the alias is contained in a public email database in the internet, the user can lock this alias and generate a new one with the same alias_name. The new alias will have a new alias_id and can be replaced in the compromised service.
* user_alias_id: Every Nextcloud user will have an own random hexadecimal user_alias_id, that stays the same for every alias of the user. This way, there can be no alias conflicts between different users.

Every alias will be of the format

```
alias_name.alias_id.user_alias_id@your_domain.com
```

your_domian is configurable by the administrator.

## OCC Commands

The app implements 2 OCC commands.

### postmag:last_modified

This command writes the timestamp of the last alias change to the console. Everytime a user update or creates an aliase this timestamp will change. You can use it to check if you have populated the most recent alias file to your postfix server.

If you use this command with the option "-f" you get the timestamp formatted in a more readable format than in unix time.

### postmag:aliases

This command generates an alias file out of the enabled user aliases an writes it to the console. You can use this file directly with you postfix server (don't forget to call newaliases on you postfix server).

The aliases will be of the format described above.
